Alright now we're flipping over
to the server side to start adding items to our cart.
But, card? Cart.
But before we even can do that
we need to set up our data model.
So let's open up our datamodel.graphql
and you see that we only have two types so far
we got our user and we have our item
and I guess we have our Permission enum as well.
We're gonna make a new type that's called cart item,
because you can't just take an item
and add it to the users cart directly
because there needs to be some information
about how many, the quantity, that they'd like to have.
So we're going to create a new type
that is related to both the item and the user.
Let's go down here and type CartItem
that has an id, which has a type of ID is required.
And we're gonna put that @unique directive on it.
The quantity, it's gonna be integer that's required.
And we're gonna just default that to a value of one.
The item is going to be an Item,
and this is a relationship
and the user is going to be a User
and that is also a relationship.
Actually both should be required.
You shouldn't be able to create a cart item,
unless you have both of those pieces of information.
That's our data model for cart item,
and now we need to go up to our User
and a cart on here.
So we're gonna say that the person has a cart,
and that is going to be an array of CartItems,
or Item, singular.
It's required and that's required as well.
Then we'll go into our schema.graphql
and find our User
and we'll also add the same line
that we did here to our User
because we want this to be available,
both server side and client side.
Now in order to add things to the cart,
we're gonna need a second mutation
and then in a future video,
we're gonna have a remove from cart as well.
So we'll say addToCart takes an id of the cart
of the item that they want to add.
So it's just going to be an ID,
and that's going to return a CartItem from that.
Now what do we do when change our data model?
We need to redeploy.
And what do you do when you change your schema?
You need to code a resolver that lines up with it.
So let's do, first, redeploy.
There we go.
And then you see that it created both our CartItem,
as well as a User,
but then it created a couple of relationships,
CartItemToUser and CartItemtoItem.
Those are two new relationships that we've just created.
Now I'm gonna start that up again.
And we're gonna open up our Mutation.js
scroll all the way to the bottom here.
We're gonna add our new async
addToCart,
takes in a parent, args, context, and info.
And then, there's three things you need to do here.
First, we need to query
the users current cart.
Well actually I guess, first we need to make sure
that they are signed in.
Second, query the users current cart.
Third, check if that item is already in their cart.
Because there's an opportunity that if I were to
add this bag to my cart,
that's the first time I'm adding it.
But if I were to add it a second time,
it's already in my cart,
so I just want to increment the quantity of that cart item.
Otherwise, you're gonna create a fresh cart item,
so check if that item is already in their cart,
and increment by one
if it is.
And then four,
if it's not,
create a fresh CartItem
for that user.
Awesome!
So first, make sure they are signed in.
Let's just grab the userId.
Could have also destructured that like this.
Whatever floats your boat.
And this is Wes from the future
because I forgot to actually check if they're signed in.
So let's say if there's no userId,
then we'll just throw a new
Error('You must be signed in soon').
And back to regular scheduled programming.
Next query the user's current cart.
Alright, we can do that.
So here, we're going to make a query
that is actually for multiple items.
And I'm gonna show you why.
Let's type it first.
So we're going to destructure the first element
that is returned into a variable called existingCartItem.
And that is going to be queried off the database,
so ctx.db.query.cartItems,
with an s, not cartItem,
and I'll show you why that is true.
Because we want to query it based on both the user's id,
as well as the item id that they're trying to put in.
So we want to know,
has this user put this item into their cart before,
and if this user has not
put this item into their cart before,
then we're gonna make a new one.
And if I were just to use cartItem, singular,
just to query one, it wouldn't work,
and I'll show you why.
Because if you open up your generated prisma.graphql,
and you search for Query,
you'll see that we have this query cartItems,
where we can
where we can filter by CartItemWhereInput.
But if we look for just a singular cartItem,
the input that we're allowed to use is called
CartItemWhereUniqueInput.
And if you take a look for what that is,
so just search for input CartItem,
it only takes an id of the cart item.
And in our case we don't know what the id is right now.
We want to be able to query based on the item id
and the user's id.
So if we were to go back to that query,
and search for CartItemWhereInput,
you'll see that the
ability to filter is
much much more dynamic and much more flexible
than the singular one.
So generally, the singular one's are just by id
or other unique inputs,
and then the multiple ones are much more flexible.
And that's not really a big issue
because we can just assume that the first one
that comes back by using this array destructuring
will be the item that we're looking for,
because there will never be another cart item
where the user and item id are exactly the same.
So we're using cartItems here,
and we say where the user id is equal to the user id
that we pulled out from the request.
And then the item id is equal to the args.id,
and that's the id of the item
that we're going to be passing along.
Now, here is the third one.
Check if that item is already in their cart
and increment by 1.
So let's say, if existingCartItem.
Let's do console.log('This item is already in their cart').
And we'll simply just return ctx.db.mutation.updateCartItem.
So again, if you go to your generated prisma.graphql,
there's an updateCartItem mutation
that takes in some data as well as a where.
So it's exactly what we're going to be using here.
Where the id is equal to the existingCartItem.id
and the data that we wanna update
is the quantity
of that cart item is going to be however much we had before,
the existingCartItem.quantity plus one.
Right?
We're just gonna take whatever they had
and increment it by one.
And because we're just returning this promise here,
then that would be it for the function
if this item is already in their cart.
Otherwise, if this is the case of the first time
that we're adding this item to our cart,
we want to create a new cartItem for that.
So from here, we will return
ctx.db.mutation.createCartItem,
and that takes in some data.
And that data needs a couple things.
Obviously, we need the user that it's connected to
and the item that the cart item is connected to
because really a cart item is just a pointer at
who has it and what item is it.
So the user is going to be usually say userId, right?
But in order to connect a relationship in prisma,
we need to use this syntax here.
Curly brackets.
Connect
where the id is equal to
the userId of the currently signed in person.
And same with the item,
we need to connect where the id is equal to the args.id,
that's the past item id that we've created.
So I think that should be good.
Let's go ahead and try hook up
one of these add to cart buttons,
and see if we're actually getting some data flowing.
Let's flip over to our front end,
and we're gonna make a new component
that's called add to cart.
Go to a components folder.
Make it new.
Capital A, AddToCart.js.
And in there we're gonna import React from 'react',
import the mutation from 'react-apollo',
import gql from 'graphql-tag'.
Then we'll make a new class.
So class AddToCart
extends React.Component.
Export that immediately.
Inside of that we want to render.
And we're gonna assume that this AddToCart gets an id.
So const, id is equal to this.props;
And then return button
Add To Cart.
Is there a shopping cart emoji?
Yeah.
Alright, so it's a very basic button,
doesn't do anything yet.
But let's open up our item.js component
and import that.
And then go swap out that button that we hard coded,
right here, with our AddToCart component.
Good. Looks like it's showing up here.
Obviously it doesn't do anything,
so we need to write a mutation that's going to line up
with the mutation resolver that we built on our server side.
We'll call our ADD_TO_CART_MUTATION
which takes in id that has a type of ID
that is going to run on the server side addToCart
passing an id with the id variable.
And from that, right now, let's just pull back
the id and the quantity,
but we will likely have to come back to this
and modify it.
Then, let's go in.
Oops, what happened here?
Expected dollar?
Found name id.
Did I goof that up?
There we go.
Dollar sign needs to go right here.
Okay, then we'll go into our button
and a mutation around that.
Mutation prop takes the ADD_TO_CART_MUTATION.
And then the child of that
is going to be addToCart.
Make that an implicit return.
Put this button inside of it.
Now, one thing we didn't do is
when we actually use this addToCart,
we didn't pass in the prop id.
So, we need to go back here.
And I'll say AddToCart id is equal to item.id.
Then go back here and add the variable interim mutation.
Id is equal to this.props.
Actually, we already have it in a variable.
So we'll just say, variables
id is equal to id or just id.
Alright, so we have this AddToCart component.
We have a mutation side of it.
We're passing the id,
which is the only thing that this mutation needs,
which exposes this addToCart functionality.
And then on the click of the button,
we're going to run add to cart.
Now this is not gonna do anything on the client side
because we're not displaying anything.
But I bet if I actually open up our dev tools here,
go to network,
clear it out,
click add to cart.
You'll see we have two little requests here.
You'll see that--
Oh, we got a bit of an error here.
Ctx.db.query.cartItems is not a function or its.
Oh, I think I forgot the query part.
So, jump back to the server side.
One thing I did forget to pass is the info.
I don't believe that's our issue,
but let's pass info for this one
and pass info for that one.
So create cart, that goes right here.
Let's give a refresh.
Get some more space going on here.
Add to cart.
Ctx.db.query.cartItems is not a function
or its return value is not iterable.
I see what did here.
So cartItems, the argument to cartItems,
when you want to filter it, is not user in item.
It's actually going to be where,
and then user and item go inside of that.
Let's just double check our other queries here.
We pass a where here
and we pass our data here.
So that should be it.
Let's give it a refresh
and see if that did anything.
Same error?
So it's telling me that you cannot destructure this
because I know that this is a function.
So it's telling me we can't destructure it,
so the way I debugged that is just stick it in a variable
without the destructuring.
And then console.log(existingCartItem).
And then return,
just to see like what is it actually getting right here.
Because for some reason it can't destructure
whatever's being returned.
Gonna go back here and clear it out.
And add to cart.
Oh, it's a promise.
We forgot to await the result of this.
Those cartItems returns a promise immediately,
but we need to await the promise to resolve.
Then we can destructure the output from that.
So let's try that one more time.
Gonna clear everything out.
Add to cart.
Hey hey! There's our data.
Comes back with the quantity of one.
I wonder if we do it again,
is it gonna come back with quantity of two?
Sure does!
So now we have our data,
and I bet if we go to our prisma data explorer,
we'll see that the user
now has a cart item attached to them.
Here's the user.
There it is.
So our cart has one cart item there.
I bet if I were to add another item.
Add to cart and refresh this.
Now the user's cart is populated with two cart items.
Obviously these are only the ids,
but when we do populate them with our GraphQL query,
we'll be able to get info about the cart item
and then we'll even further be able to go get information
about the items inside of that cart item.
So that is actually adding it.
The add to cart works.
In the next video, let's get it working
so we can start to display these things in real-time
as soon as I click add to cart.